## Privacy
- *Privacy is Power*, by Carissa Véliz [[Aeon](https://aeon.co/essays/privacy-matters-because-it-empowers-us-all)] [[Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51781479-privacy-is-power)]
  - "When you give that key, your privacy, to someone who loves you, it will allow you to enjoy closeness, and they will use it to benefit you. Part of what it means to be close to someone is sharing what makes you vulnerable, giving them the power to hurt you, and trusting that person never to take advantage of the privileged position granted by intimacy."
  - "People who love you might use your date of birth to organise a surprise birthday party for you; they’ll make a note of your tastes to find you the perfect gift; they’ll take into account your darkest fears to keep you safe from the things that scare you. Not everyone will use access to your personal life in your interest, however. Fraudsters might use your date of birth to impersonate you while they commit a crime; companies might use your tastes to lure you into a bad deal; enemies might use your darkest fears to threaten and extort you. People who don’t have your best interest at heart will exploit your data to further their own agenda. **Privacy matters because the lack of it gives others power over you.**"
  - "Everyone in tech wants you to pay attention to their app, their platform, their ads. They want to know more about you so they can know how best to distract you [...] But your data is not valuable only because it can be sold. Facebook does not technically sell your data, for instance. Nor does Google. They sell the power to influence you. They sell the power to show you ads, and the power to predict your behaviour. Google and Facebook are only technically in the business of data; they are mostly in the business of power."
- *Why I Support Privacy*, by Vitalik Buterin [[Essay](https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2025/04/14/privacy.html)]
  - "Privacy gives you the freedom to live your life in a way that best suits your personal goals and needs, without having to constantly balance every action between "the private game" (your own needs) and "the public game" (how all kinds of other people, intermediated by all kinds of mechanisms including social media cascades, commercial incentives, politics, institutions, etc, will perceive and respond to your behavior)."

## Anti-Aging Research
- *The Fable of the Dragon-Tyrant*, by Nick Bostrom [[Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cZYNADOHhVY)] [[Essay](https://nickbostrom.com/papers/the-fable-of-the-dragon-tyrant/)]
  - "The misery inflicted by the dragon-tyrant was incalculable. In addition to the ten thousand who were gruesomely slaughtered each day, there were the mothers, fathers, wives, husbands, children, and friends that were left behind to grieve the loss of their departed loved ones."
  - "Spiritual men sought to comfort those who were afraid of being eaten by the dragon (which included almost everyone, although many denied it in public) by promising another life after death, a life that would be free from the dragon-scourge. Other orators argued that the dragon has its place in the natural order and a moral right to be fed. They said that it was part of the very meaning of being human to end up in the dragon’s stomach."
  - See also: *Pro-Aging Trance* [[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pro-aging_trance)]
- *Yehuda Yudkowsky, 1985-2004* by Eliezer Yudkowsky [[Essay](https://www.yudkowsky.net/other/yehuda)]
  - "Maybe it helps to believe in an immortal soul. I know that I would feel a lot better if Yehuda had gone away on a trip somewhere, even if he was never coming back. But Yehuda did not “pass on”. Yehuda is not “resting in peace”. Yehuda is not coming back. Yehuda doesn’t exist any more. Yehuda was absolutely annihilated at the age of nineteen. Yes, that makes me angry. I can’t put into words how angry. It would be rage to rend the gates of Heaven and burn down God on Its throne, if any God existed. But there is no God, so my anger burns to tear apart the way-things-are, remake the pattern of a world that permits this."
  - "I wonder at the strength of non-transhumanist atheists, to accept so terrible a darkness without any hope of changing it. But then most atheists also succumb to comforting lies, and make excuses for death even less defensible than the outright lies of religion. They flinch away, refuse to confront **the horror of a hundred and fifty thousand sentient beings annihilated every day**. One point eight lives per second, fifty-five million lives per year. Convert the units, time to life, life to time. The World Trade Center killed half an hour. As of today, all cryonics organizations together have suspended one minute. This essay took twenty thousand lives to write. I wonder if there was ever an atheist who accepted the full horror, making no excuses, offering no consolations, who did not also hope for some future dawn. What must it be like to live in this world, seeing it just the way it is, and think that it will never change, never get any better?"
  - "Goodbye, Yehuda. There isn’t much point in saying it, since there’s no one to hear. Goodbye, Yehuda, you don’t exist any more. Nothing left of you after your death, like there was nothing before your birth. You died, and your family, Mom and Dad and Channah and I, sat down at the Sabbath table just like our family had always been composed of only four people, like there had never been a Yehuda. Goodbye, Yehuda Yudkowsky, never to return, never to be forgotten."

